# Text-To-Image-GAN-with-LSTM-GRU
 A GAN Modelcombines the features of GAN-CLS, DCGAN, GAN-INT to perform image synthesis from text.
 
 Working :
 
 To create the text embeddings, the noise z is sampled and then each sentence is encoded using RNN LSTM or GRU encoder. We also train the text encoder with a large amount of synonyms of each sentence, to ensure coverage of as many variations of the textual descriptions as possible in the English language.
 
Next, this text embedding is first compressed to 128 dimensions using fully connected layer and Leaky ReLU and is concatenated with noise vector z. The Following this, Generator G uses this to text embedding, noise z to generate a synthetic image by passing it through a deconvolutional network comprising of Convolution, UpSampling and Batch Normalization layer stack. Consequently, Generator G generates a 64x64x3 image.

The Discriminator D takes in the fake images generated by G, the real images and text embeddings. It performs a series of 2D convolution on the input real image with stride 2, with batch normalization and leaky ReLU. It is then concatenated with the text embedding input of the RNN encoder. We then perform 1x1 convolution with Leaky ReLU activation followed by a 4x4 convolution to compute the final score.
During the initial phases of training, the discriminator easily rejects samples from G because they do not look credible enough. Once G learns to generate credible images, it must align them with the conditioning information and likewise D must learn to evaluate whether samples generated by G are fake or real.

In basic GAN, the discriminator is fed with two types of inputs: real images with matching text and fake images with arbitrary text. To make the GAN model more robust for learning complex dynamics, we modify this GAN structure. Now, instead of doing binary classification, the discriminator D learns to discriminate three conditions: real images with right text, fake images with wrong text and real images with wrong text which the discriminator must learn to score as fake.

